---
layout:     post
title:      "The google resume"
date:        2016-02-24 12:50:54
author:     "Youxinyu"
categories:    hum
header-img: "img/home-bg-2.jpg"
tags:
    - Plan
---

# The google resume
11-29

1. What should I do to work in a big company?
2. Which company should I choose?
3. How to write a resume? Or what kind of things should I do to paper?

Personal experience.

Project -> internship -> relationship

## Design your career path
1. Perks
2. Moving Up, you can move up through your personal contributions. 
3. Culture differance: Amazon,Apple(screct),micrsoft(windows,search,web),google(nerdy)
4. Big or Little

5. **Career Path**
- What do you need? money? respect? work/life balance? Personal achievement. Wisdom, love, fame, money. 
- How do you enjoy working? 
	- independent work is great, teamwork is ok. It depends on who I am working with.
	- creating, abviously. 
	- if there are something that I really want to do, then I want to lead. If there are something someone is working on and I really love to do then I will join.
	- What are you good at? Reading、thinking、writing. Science is ok. Creativity is emm I'd love to try. How do I work with people? I really don't think this deeply. 
	- Analysis your sucess and failures. Well, do I have any particular success？ It seems thst I do not have any big sucess or failures in my current life. Have I done any project? Yes, it's sucessed. Math Model is failure. I want to lead only if the person with me really want to do that. Only if they have the moviation. Only if I really want to do that. 

6. **An overview.** Where would you fit at our company? And would you do a good job?
	- develop a track record of achievement. Maybe I should start to fill my resume now. 
	- write and speak. well, I am working on this thing all the time. But I know that most people in real life foucs on clean and perfessional. I also like to write things more nature(literature).
	- emphasis depth over breadth. I do not agree on this point with the author. Breadth is important. It make a full man.
	- being a leader. Yeap, I have tasted this. 
	- find a mentor. In my current life, I haven't find a mentor, but I do read some good books which gives me advice. `I need one in really life, how to do that?`
	- know the field

7. Get project experience `Project, problem saving skills`

8. GPA 	
if you have a low GPA, you can show your ability through other activities.
	> the top company seek for the top condidates——people with a track record of sucess.
	
9. Getting to know peofessors. 
Do I need do this? I usually don't know how to comminicate with a teacher. research, help, teching assistant, lunch,
10. Work Experience
	- make an impact
		- think broadly, help others.
		- be really, really good at what you do.
		- solicit feedback proactively.
		- learn about other teams.
	
	- become an generalist. Understand other's role. not too much, I think.
	
	
