---
layout:     post
title:      "Learning iOS UI Development Reading Notes"
date:       2016-04-14 20:40:54
author:     "Youxinyu"
categories:    tech
header-img: 
header-mask: 0.4
catalog:    true
tags:
    - iOS
    - Tech
---
# Learning iOS UI Development

## Chapter 1. UI Fundamentals

## Windows
window is an instance of UIWindow. It's the root class of UI's hierarchy. One of the function of the  window is to deliver touches to the underling views.
 
 window好比是画板，view好比是画纸。
	 
	 -- widow
	 --- rootViewController(view controller)

### The content of the window

@UIApplication从info.plist中找到信息，初始化view controller；App delegate中有window属性，设置之前初始化的view controller为其rootViewController。最后，执行完applicationDidFinishLaunching:withOption之后，会调用makeKeyAndVisible将界面从rootViewController中展示出来。（中文混杂英文描述好生涩）

1. 将某个view controller设置为rootViewController，window就会显示该view controller的view。
2. @UIApplicationMain
> The @UIApplicationMain attribute in the AppDelegate.swift file is responsible for the launch of the entire application process. It marks an entry point for the application launch, reading the Storyboard's information from the info.plist file and instantiating the initial view controller
3. window property in the AppDelegate. 
>This property will be a handy reference to the main window for the entire life cycle of the application.
4. 代码实现：


		fun application(application: UIApplication,
    	didFinishLaunchingWithOptions
    	launchOptions: [NSObject: AnyObject]?) -> Bool {
    	// Instantiate a window with the same size of the screen    
    	window = UIWindow(frame: UIScreen.mainScreen().bounds)
    	// Instantiate a view controller with the Main storyboard
    	let storyboard = UIStoryboard(name: "Main", bundle: nil)
    	let viewController = storyboard.instantiateViewControllerWithIdentifier("viewController2") as! ViewController
    	// Setup and present the window
    	window?.rootViewController = viewController
    	window?.makeKeyAndVisible()
    	return true
		}

## Working with views

UIView is the basic class for other UI element.
> UIWindow is also the subclass of the UIVIew.

### define the view's geometry

(0,0)
------------>x
|
|
|
y

	// define a point
	let point = CGPoint(x:20, y:10)
	// define a size 
	let size = CGSize(width: 20, height: 10)
	// define a rect using size and point
	let rect_A = CGRect(origin: point, size: size)
	// define a text using x, y, width and height data
	let rect_B = CGRect(x: 15, y: 10. width: 100, height: 30)

#### 1. bounds
the view's self information.自身坐标系下。

#### 2. frame
the place in the hierarchy.父级坐标系下。

#### 3. center
同frame。

## UI hierarchy and views inheritance
let parentVIew = view.parentview
let children = view.subview

- add
- move
- delete


		containerView.addSubView(childView)
		containerView.insertSubview(childView, at index: 2)
		containerView.insertSubview(childView, aboveSubview: anotherView)
		containerView.insetSubview(childView,belowSubview : anotherView)
	
		remove all the subview of the view:
	
		for subview in container.subview{
			subview.removeFromSuperview()
		}
	
		viewWithTag

### View and subview visibility
clipToBuounds, the parent view define the subviews' visibility outside its boundaries.

### Hierarchy events

	override fun didMoveToSuperview(){
		// to do something
	}
	
	override fun didAddSubview(){
		// to do something
	}

	override fun didMoveToWindow(){
		println("I've been attached to this window hierarchy: \(window)")
	}

## View drawing and life cycle

- draw a view and creat snapshots for each displayed element.

setNeedsDisplay pr setNeedsDisplayInRect can make the UIView invalidated. They will redraw during the next run loop. The latter one is better(the latter performs an optimization using only a portion of the new view content).

## Chapter 2. UI Components overview - UIKit 

This chapter covers many different but related topics. Here is an overview of what you will read about in the next pages:

- Text elements and the keyboard
- Buttons, selectors, and user interaction
- View-based components
- A UI for structured data
- Custom components with the UIAppearance protocol


## Text element: UILabel,UItextfield,UItextview

	var image = UIImageView(image: 		UIImage(named:"Image"))
     	   self.textView.addSubview(image)
        	let exclusionPath = UIBezierPath(rect: image.frame)
        self.textView.textContainer.exclusionPaths = [exclusionPath]
        
 keyboard event and appearance
 
## Button and selectors
subclass of  UIControl class
 
 Most of the UI elements' role is to interact with the users. They convert touch event into actions or choices.
 
### The Target-Action patten
>This pattern defines how a control can request the execution of an function(action) to another object(target) in response to an event.

## View-based components
subclass of UIView

- UIProgressView
- UIActivityIndicatorView
- UIImageView ,UIImage
- UIScrollView

## Managing and presenting strutted data
table and collection views

- UITableView(UIScrollView)
- UICollectionView

## The UIApperance protocol

Example:

	let minTrack = UIImage(named: "minTrack")
	let maxTrack = UIImage(named: "maxTrack")
	let thumb = UIImage(named: "thumb")

	// Create resizable images
	let resizableMinTrack = 
	minTrack?.resizableImageWithCapInsets(
	UIEdgeInsets(top: 0, left: 5, bottom: 0, right: 5))

	let resizableMaxTrack = 
	maxTrack?.resizableImageWithCapInsets(
	UIEdgeInsets(top: 0, left: 5, bottom: 0, right: 5))

	// Configure the styles!
	UISlider.appearance().setMaximumTrackImage(
	resizableMaxTrack, forState: UIControlState.Normal)

	UISlider.appearance().setMinimumTrackImage(
	resizableMinTrack, forState: UIControlState.Normal)

	UISlider.appearance().setThumbImage(
	thumb, forState: UIControlState.Normal)


 
# Chapter 3. Interface Builder, XIB, and storyboard
 
## working with the XIB files
 
## Managing user interface with storyboard

## connecting user interface with your code
可以先写代码再拖动选择。
	 
	 @IBAction fund signIn(sender:UIButton){
	 }
 
	 var storyboard = UIStoryboard(name: "Main", bundle: nil)
	 
 	var storyboard = UIStoryboard(name: "Main", bundle: nil)

## implementing navigation with storyboard and segues

	override fun prepareForSegue(segue: UIStoryboardSegue, 
                             sender: AnyObject?) {
	 		if segue.identifier == "userDetails"{
     	   	let detailsVC = segue.destinationViewController as! 
         	              detailsViewController
        		detailsVC.firstname = user.firstname
        		detailsVC.lastname = user.lastname
    		}
	}

	@IBAction fund <function name>(segue:UIStoryboardSegue){}

# Auto Layout

> The main rule we should keep in mind is that if you want to specify the frame of a view with Auto Layout, you need to give it enough information for both the X/Y position and width/height size.

 

---

WWDC

# UI Level

1. Layout
	- stack view->behaviors 
	- layout margins
2. Appearance
basicline

## Xcode tips:

1. Shift + right click / control + left click
2. file:option+shift

## Build time
design time->xml
build time->nib
## Compiling storyboard
## losing storyboard at run time
1. Performance: Nib file loaded on demand.
2. Reuse: Nib files enable reuse.
3. Life cycle.

## Run time
Connection, API, 

## Design

1. Bad App Icons
Beautiful+Instandly Recognizable
- Focus on a unique shape  
- Carefully select colors
- Avoid using a photo
- Avoid a lot of text
- Be creative
2. Case study

# Cocoa Touch best practice
## put on the background.

---

## 问题：如何自定义控件？

-Object
--UIResponder
---UIView
----UIControl

- 控件的机制是什么？
- 如何获取用户的操作？
- 如何判断操作的度量？








